Article ID: 260065
The swift actions of an off-duty [ Chicago police ][1] officer may have saved
the life of a bicyclist seriously wounded after a violent crash Sunday morning
on the city's North Side.

Sean Hayes, a Chicago Police Department firearms instructor, was driving with
his 6-year-old son around 9:45 a.m. Sunday in the 3500 block of North Damen
Avenue in Roscoe Village when he spotted a young man who appeared dazed and
was holding a hand to his neck.

"I asked him if he was OK," Hayes said. "Then, all of a sudden, blood came out
of his neck. He said, 'Help! I'm hurt.'"

The 21-year-old man had been riding his bicycle to work when he crashed into a
car door that opened in his path, completely folding the door against the
front of the car. At some point during the wreck, an edge of the car door
apparently clipped the cyclist's neck, causing him to bleed profusely.

Hayes, a 16-year veteran, managed to collect his thoughts, retrieve a medical
kit from his car and apply a pressure bandage on the victim's neck.

Cop helps injured bicyclist

Chicago Tribune

Chicago police Officer Sean Hayes talks about assisting an injured bicyclist
during a news conference at the 17th District police station July 3, 2016. The
bicyclist had collided with an open car door and was bleeding from the neck.
Then off-duty, Hayes stopped and applied pressure to the wound until
paramedics arrived.

Chicago police Officer Sean Hayes talks about assisting an injured bicyclist
during a news conference at the 17th District police station July 3, 2016. The
bicyclist had collided with an open car door and was bleeding from the neck.
Then off-duty, Hayes stopped and applied pressure to the wound until
paramedics arrived.  (Chicago Tribune)

"The big thing was keeping him calm," Hayes said. "He was looking for answers.
'Am I hurt? Am I going to be OK?' I said, 'Yeah you're going to be fine.' I
said, 'You're going to have a little scar, and you got a little blood on you,
but you're going to be fine.'

"The lady (driver) involved was hysterical and not making things easy, so I
chose a difficult bandage for her to open up and work on and kept her busy
with that," Hayes continued.

Minutes later, an ambulance arrived to relieve Hayes, who was wearing shorts
and a Hawaiian-style shirt. The victim was rushed to Illinois Masonic Medical
Center, where he was in serious but stable condition.

Sunday's accident was the first time Hayes said he had to render aid. He
credits medical techniques he learned from a voluntary first-aid course for
Chicago police officers.

"You never think you're going to need it," Hayes said. "I certainly didn't. I
just happened to be at the right place at the right time."

While Hayes downplayed his medical training, saying not to mistake police
officers for paramedics or EMTs, Hayes' son, Cole, offered another title for
his father.

"My son thought it was great, 'My dad is a hero,'" Hayes said.

_ tbriscoe@tribpub.com _

_ Twitter @_tonybriscoe _

   [1]: /topic/crime-law-justice/law-enforcement/chicago-police-department-ORGOV
000080-topic.html (Chicago Police Department)

 Predicted Tags: ['CPD']
OEMC    0.000006
CPD     0.999089
SAO     0.000004
CCCC    0.000593
CCJ     0.000000
CCSP    0.006088
CPUB    0.000331
IDOC    0.000035
DOMV    0.000109
SEXA    0.000001
POLB    0.000035
POLM    0.001850
GUNV    0.001001
GLBTQ   0.000087
JUVE    0.000859
REEN    0.000004
VIOL    0.007403
BEAT    0.000062
PROB    0.000063
PARL    0.000074
CPLY    0.000609
DRUG    0.000002
CPS     0.000014
GANG    0.000031
ILSP    0.009574
HOMI    0.000007
IPRA    0.000027
CPBD    0.000566
IMMG    0.000002
ENVI    0.000000
UNSPC   0.069367
ILSC    0.000013
ARSN    0.000000
BURG    0.000031
DUI     0.000422
FRUD    0.000000
ROBB    0.002596
TASR    0.000014
Name: 4, dtype: float64
