Article ID: 128395
#  Two wounded city police officers get top honors for bravery

BY FRAN SPIELMAN City Hall Reporter  October 8, 2013 3:50PM

25237258

#####  Article Extras

![Story Image][1]

Updated:  October 8, 2013 9:02PM

  
  

When the phone rang at 10:30 p.m. on July 18, 2011, Jeff Friedlieb was afraid
to pick it up for fear that something terrible had happened to his son, who
had followed his dad into the Chicago Police Department.

“I was sitting at home and I got a call….He says, `Come to the County
[Hospital]. I’ve got a bullet in my head,’ ” the elder Friedlieb recalled.

“Most parents would get that call and they’d be in the alley picking up his
brains…You have to thank God when you take a bullet in the back of your head
and have the audacity to fire back and shoot the guy.”

On Tuesday, the elder Jeff Friedlieb was in the City Council chambers to watch
his son and namesake receive the Carter Harrison Award, this year’s highest
honor for police bravery, along with his partner, Officer Ruben Del Valle.

Both plainclothes officers were shot while attempting to arrest a man they had
observed allegedly engaging in a drug deal in a West Side alley.

During the struggle, the suspect allegedly pulled out a handgun and fired
several shots. Del Valle was hit in the arm and head. Friedlieb was shot in
the head. The bullet remains lodged behind his left ear.

Somehow, the wounded Friedlieb managed to return fire, striking the fleeing
suspect. Charges were subsequently dropped against one suspect, but another is
awaiting trial.

“I went down. Luckily, I was still conscious. I was able to fight back and
wound the offender,” said the younger Friedlieb, who still suffers sometimes
from severe headaches.

“It was pretty much will and training, dedication to the job….You don’t really
think about the injury. You think more about catching the offender. Your
adrenalin takes over...[Afterwards], you look at life differently. It is a
second chance.”

The partners credited their military training with carrying them through on
that fateful day.

“I realized my partner was shot. I was shot. The first thing on my mind was,
`Okay, we’re still moving. We’re still able to get up on our feet and chase
this guy.’ That will [to live] is just survival. Your body just takes over.
You get that feeling of, `I’ve got to make it out of here. I’ve got to make it
home,’ ” Del Valle said.

Nearly a half-dozen of the police officers honored during Tuesday’s ceremony
had been shot by criminals they were trying to apprehend.

The elder Friedlieb, who was shot at, but never hit during 42 years on the
streets of Chicago, couldn’t help but take notice.

“They’re getting bolder….It’s a lot harder for the officers today,” the father
said.

The Lambert Tree Award, this year’s highest honor for fire bravery, went to
Lieutenant/EMT John Majka and firefighter/paramedic Anthony Licato.

Together, they rescued a bedridden, 94-year-old woman from the second floor of
a burning house on the Far South Side.

Despite intense heat and blinding smoke, Majka didn’t wait for water lines to
be hooked up before beginning the search. He charged up the stairs, found the
woman and was attempting to carry her out unconscious just as Licato arrived
with a hose line to help him.

“I saw her ankle hanging off the bed right near the floor and just crawled up
to her face. I could see she was burned. But she did take a breath, so that
led me to believe she had a chance to survive. So, I kicked it into higher
gear and got her out of there,” Majka recalled.

Pressed on what went through his mind on that day, Majka said, “You do have to
choke down that uncertainty and that fear and push forward. It’s only human to
do that. But that’s what we do.”

For Licato, being called a hero wasn’t easy. He said he would “much rather be
at the firehouse.”

The best part of Tuesday’s ceremony was bringing his sons, ages 2 and 4, to
the fire academy.

“They’re very excited to be here…They love the Fire Department. This was a big
day for them,” he said, to the squeals of his delighted children.

Email: fspielman@suntimes.com

Twitter:@fspielman

* * *

  
  

![][2]

Show / Hide Comments

  

(C) 2013 Sun-Times Media, LLC. All rights reserved. This material may not be
copied or distributed without permission. For more information about reprints
and permissions, visit [ www.suntimesreprints.com ][3] . To order a reprint of
this article, [ click here ][3] .

[ Special Home Delivery Offer ][4]

[ Advertise Here ][5]

   [1]: /csp/cms/sites/dt.common.streams.StreamServer.cls?STREAMOID=AgnWi6TJU952
B456xWsxH8$daE2N3K4ZzOUsqbU5sYvDe3dhyG70Edm72KqYOMSI6FB40xiOfUoExWL3M40tfzssyZqp
eG_J0TFo7ZhRaDiHC9oxmioMlYVJD0A$3RbIiibgT65kY_CSDiCiUzvHvODrHApbd6ry6YGl5GGOZrs-
&CONTENTTYPE=image/jpeg
   [2]: /csp/cms/sites/STM/assets/img/gigya/comment_icon.gif
   [3]: http://www.suntimesreprints.com
   [4]: https://register.suntimesnewsgroup.com/clickshare/selectDeliveryPublicat
ion.do 
   [5]: http://www.suntimes.com/advertiser

 Predicted Tags: ['CPD' 'GUNV' 'VIOL' 'DRUG']
OEMC    0.000609
CPD     0.900440
SAO     0.000010
CCCC    0.000000
CCJ     0.000097
CCSP    0.000739
CPUB    0.000001
IDOC    0.000012
DOMV    0.007310
SEXA    0.000020
POLB    0.000057
POLM    0.000090
GUNV    0.929738
GLBTQ   0.000018
JUVE    0.000352
REEN    0.000010
VIOL    0.950518
BEAT    0.000006
PROB    0.000003
PARL    0.000017
CPLY    0.000003
DRUG    0.967745
CPS     0.000007
GANG    0.012286
ILSP    0.000002
HOMI    0.000009
IPRA    0.000017
CPBD    0.000373
IMMG    0.000004
ENVI    0.000000
UNSPC   0.040011
ILSC    0.000003
ARSN    0.000091
BURG    0.000061
DUI     0.000027
FRUD    0.000000
ROBB    0.004625
TASR    0.000035
Name: 1, dtype: float64
